---
title: Run the Micro Manager
permalink: tooling-micro-manager-running.html
keywords: tooling, macro-micro, two-scale
summary: Run the Micro Manager from the terminal with a configuration file as input argument or from a Python script.
---

## Micro Manager

The Micro Manager is run directly from the terminal by providing the path to the configuration file as an input argument in the following way

```bash
micro-manager-precice micro-manager-config.json
```

The Micro Manager can also be run in parallel

```bash
mpiexec -n micro-manager-precice micro-manager-config.json
```

### What happens when a micro simulation crashes?

If a micro simulation crashes and the Micro Manager is configured to [interpolate a crashed micro simulation](tooling-micro-manager-configuration.html/#Interpolate-a-crashed-micro-simulation), the Micro Manager attempts to continue running. The error message from the micro simulation, along with the macro location are logged in the Micro Manager log file. The Micro Manager continues the simulation run even if a micro simulation crashes. Results of the crashed micro simulation are generated by interpolating results of a certain number of similar running simulations. The [inverse distance weighed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverse_distance_weighting) method is used. If more than 20% of global micro simulations crash or if locally no neighbors are available for interpolation, the Micro Manager terminates.

## Snapshot Computation

The Micro Manager snapshot computation is run directly from the terminal by adding the `--snapshot` argument and by providing the path to the configuration file as an input argument in the following way

```bash
micro-manager-precice --snapshot snapshot-config.json
```

The Micro Manager snapshot computation can also be run in parallel

```bash
mpiexec -n <number-of-processes> micro-manager-precice --snapshot snapshot-config.json
```

where `<number-of-processes>` must be replaced with the number of processes to be used.

### Results

The results of the snapshot computation is written into `output/` in HDF5-format. Each parameter is stored in a separate dataset. The dataset names correspond to the names specified in the configuration file. The first dimension of the datasets corresponds to the macro parameter index.

### What happens when a micro mimulation crashes during snapshot computation?

If the computation of a snapshot fails, the snapshot is skipped.
